
## Lab 2

### 2.2.1. Capture your own DHCP traffic

1.  Are DHCP messages sent over UDP or TCP?
2.  What is the IP address of your DHCP server?
3.  Draw a timing datagram illustrating the sequence of the first four-packet Discover/Offer/Request/ACK DHCP exchange between the client and server. For each packet, indicated the source and destination port numbers.
4.  A host uses DHCP to obtain an IP address, among other things. But a host's IP address is not confirmed until the end of the four-message exchange! If the IP address is not set until the end of the four-message exchange, then what values are used in the IP datagrams in the four-message exchange? For each of the four DHCP messages (Discover/Offer/Request/ACK DHCP), indicate the source and destination IP addresses that are carried in the encapsulating IP datagram.
5.  Explain the purpose of the lease time. How long is the lease time in your experiment?

### 2.2.2. Make communication possible between both VMs

1.  Can both VMs communicate with each other? If communication is possible, you should be able to ping the Windows 10 VM from your Kali VM
    
2.  Can both VMs access the internet? Is NAT being used, and if so, which router in the network handles the translation?
    

The final goal is to configure both VMs in such a way that they can ping to each other, and both VMs should have internet access.

### 2.2.3. Make communication possible between the host and the VMs

### 2.2.4. Capture Telnet and SSH traffic

### 2.2.5. Capture all traffic from the Windows 10 client

### 2.2.6. (Optional) Setup using two networkinterfaces on the Kali VM

