Gelinkte kloon neemt veel minder diskspace in, als je er meerdere kloont

# 4.2.1. Experiment with snapshots

The goal of this step is to experiment with snapshots in VirtualBox.

1.  Shutdown the virtual machine (if needed) and take a snapshot of the Virtual Machine
2.  Start the Virtual Machine and create a text file with some content on the Desktop
3.  Try to answer the following questions:
    -   Where is the base VDI stored? What size (in MB) is it?
	    - In de root van de folder van mijn VM. 16,4GB
    -   Where is the delta file stored? What size (in MB) is it?
	    - In de folder 'Snapshots'. 2,89GB
4.  Power off the VM and restore the snapshot. Power on the virtual machine.
    -   Is the textfile still present on the desktop? Why (not)?
	    - Neen. De textfile zat in de delta file van de huidige snapshot. Nu zijn we teruggegaan naar een vorige snapshot, waardoor base VDI gebruikt wordt.
    -   Does this change anything to the base VDI?
	    - Neen, want de base VDI werd op read only gezet op het moment van de snapshot. 
    -   Does this remove the delta file?
	    - Neen, de snapshot is nog steeds aanwezig
    -   If the textfile is missing: create a new textfile on the desktop.
5.  Power off the VM again and delete the snapshot. Power on the virtual machine.
    -   Is the textfile still present on the desktop? Why (not)?
	    - Ja, het nieuwe tekstbestand staat er nog. Dit komt omdat er niet gewerkt werd op de delta file van de snapshot, maar de base VDI.
    -   Do you still have the delta file? Why (not)?
	    - Neen, dit komt omdat we de snapshot verwijderd hebben.

#  4.2.2. Create a linked clone of the Windows VM

The next step is to create a linked clone of the Windows VM. Power off the Windows VM and create a clone of this virtual machine. Make sure to create a **Linked clone** (and not a Full clone).

Before starting the clone, look at the result:

-   Where is the base VDI stored? Where is/are the delta file(s) stored?
	- In de root van de virtualbox folder. De delta files worden bewaard in de map "Snapshots"
-   What happened to the original VM?
	- De originele VM is nu een "Linked base for windows 10 and windows 10 clone"
-   What is the relationship between linked clones and snapshots?
	- De gelinkte kloon houdt wijzigingen incrementeel bij met behulp van delta files.

# 4.2.3. Disarm the VM and experiment with anti malware testfile

For this step, we will **only** use the linked clone of the Windows VM. Shutdown any other virtual machines, and power on the linked clone. Install 7-zip (or any software that can extract password-encrypted ZIP files) on the cloned VM, as we will need this soon.

Your next goal is to disable the Virus & Threat protection built into Windows as we want to make the VM vulnerable. This can be done in Windows Security - Virus & threat protection settings. Make sure to disable real-time protection, cloud-delivered protection and automatic submission.

Once your Windows 10 clone is completely unarmed, you can test this out by using the Anti Malware Testfile from [https://www.eicar.org/?page_id=3950](https://www.eicar.org/?page_id=3950). This is not actual malware, but a file that _looks_ like malware and it should be detected as a threat by any modern anti-virus software.

Download the eicar testfile, and extract it to the desktop of your clone. If virus & threat protection is still active, the file will get quarantined soon, and removed from your desktop. However, as you just disarmed your VM, this should not be the case, and the file should remain where you extracted it - at this point you can reboot the VM to make sure that the virus protection is not re-enabled when rebooting. If the file is still present on the desktop after a reboot, you know that the VM remains unarmed even after a reboot. We are now ready for the next step, in which we will execute **actual malware** on the VM.

# 4.2.4. Break the clone

**WARNING** In this step, we will execute real malware inside the Virtual Machine. Before continuing, we **strongly** recommend disconnecting the virtual machine from any network. This can be done by opening the settings of the VM, and switching the network adapter mode to _Disconnected_.

The malware we will be using is the HermeticWiper that was found on Ukraine's critical infrastructures few days after the start of the russian 'military operation' in February 2022. More information about this can be found here: [https://yoroi.company/research/diskkill-hermeticwiper-a-disruptive-cyber-weapon-targeting-ukraines-critical-infrastructures/](https://yoroi.company/research/diskkill-hermeticwiper-a-disruptive-cyber-weapon-targeting-ukraines-critical-infrastructures/)

For testing purposes, a real copy of this malware can be found in the Malware Bazaar: [https://bazaar.abuse.ch/sample/1bc44eef75779e3ca1eefb8ff5a64807dbc942b1e4a2672d77b9f6928d292591/](https://bazaar.abuse.ch/sample/1bc44eef75779e3ca1eefb8ff5a64807dbc942b1e4a2672d77b9f6928d292591/)

-   Download the encrypted zip file to your cloned VM.
-   Extract the archive, using the password _infected_.
-   Execute the binary file (malware) on the Windows VM clone, make sure to run it as **Administrator** (Right click -> Run as Administrator).
-   Keep working in the clone by opening some programs inside Windows (e.g. notepad, calculator, or even play a short game of solitaire).
-   After 10-15 minutes, you might notice some weird behaviour. Time to reboot the virtual machine! If everything goes well, you will see a little surprise after rebooting the virtual machine!

Take a look at the base VDI and delta file. What is the current size of the delta file?

#  4.2.5. Restore your setup

Once the linked clone is completely unusable, it is time to get rid of it.

-   Fully power off the linked clone
-   Remove the linked clone (delete all files)
-   Remove the snapshot of the original VM (which was automatically created when creating the clone)
-   Start the original VM
    -   Is 7-zip installed on the VM?
	    - Nee
    -   Is the antivirus software still disabled?
	    - Nee
    -   Can you find any traces of the test malware or HermeticWiper on the VM?
	    - Nee
    -   Is the VM working as it should?
	    - Ja

If you did all steps correctly, you should notice that the original VM is still unaffected by the malware, and 7-zip should not be installed yet (unless you installed it before creating the linked clone).