C2 = command & conquer

payload = wat gaan we doen? 

### 5.2.1. Port Scanning

## Port scanning

The goal of this step is to experiment with the `nmap` command from a terminal. We recommend using the Kali VM for this, as nmap is already installed inside this VM.

1.  Execute a simple scan on **scanme.nmap.org** . Which ports are open?
 ```
 Starting Nmap 7.92 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-03-24 05:59 EDT
Nmap scan report for scanme.nmap.org (45.33.32.156)
Host is up (0.16s latency).
Other addresses for scanme.nmap.org (not scanned): 2600:3c01::f03c:91ff:fe18:bb2f
Not shown: 996 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE SERVICE
22/tcp    open  ssh
80/tcp    open  http
9929/tcp  open  nping-echo
31337/tcp open  Elite

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 10.13 seconds

 ```
2.  Has `nmap` scanned all 65535 possible ports on **scanme.nmap.org**? How many has it actually scanned? How can you scan all ports?
```

Neen, enkel de 1000 meest gekende poorten werden gescand
Alle poorten kunnen gescand worden met nmap -p- scanme.nmap.org

Starting Nmap 7.92 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-03-24 06:05 EDT
Nmap scan report for scanme.nmap.org (45.33.32.156)
Host is up (0.18s latency).
Other addresses for scanme.nmap.org (not scanned): 2600:3c01::f03c:91ff:fe18:bb2f
Not shown: 65531 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
PORT      STATE SERVICE
22/tcp    open  ssh
80/tcp    open  http
9929/tcp  open  nping-echo
31337/tcp open  Elite

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 298.61 seconds

```

3.  You'll notice only TCP ports are listed, how can you scan for UDP ports?
``` 
nmap -sU scanme.nmap.org

```
4.  You are now probably waiting quite some time and no ports show up. Why? How can you speed up the process by only scanning for the 20 most common ports? How long does this take? Which open ports do you find?
```
nmap --top-ports 20 -sU scanme.nmap.org 

Starting Nmap 7.92 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-03-24 06:21 EDT
Nmap scan report for scanme.nmap.org (45.33.32.156)
Host is up (0.020s latency).
Other addresses for scanme.nmap.org (not scanned): 2600:3c01::f03c:91ff:fe18:bb2f

PORT      STATE         SERVICE
53/udp    open|filtered domain
67/udp    open|filtered dhcps
68/udp    open|filtered dhcpc
69/udp    open|filtered tftp
123/udp   open          ntp
135/udp   open|filtered msrpc
137/udp   open|filtered netbios-ns
138/udp   open|filtered netbios-dgm
139/udp   open|filtered netbios-ssn
161/udp   open|filtered snmp
162/udp   open|filtered snmptrap
445/udp   open|filtered microsoft-ds
500/udp   open|filtered isakmp
514/udp   open|filtered syslog
520/udp   open|filtered route
631/udp   open|filtered ipp
1434/udp  open|filtered ms-sql-m
1900/udp  open|filtered upnp
4500/udp  open|filtered nat-t-ike
49152/udp open|filtered unknown

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 1.79 seconds


```
5.  Let's go back to scanning TCP ports only. How can we detect which operating system and services run on these ports using `nmap`?
```
nmap -sV scanme.nmap.org
```
6.  `nmap` has support to run scripts. One of these scripts is the `vulners` script to see which vulnerabilities exist on the detected ports. See [https://github.com/vulnersCom/nmap-vulners](https://github.com/vulnersCom/nmap-vulners) for more information. Which vulnerabilities do you detect for the SSH server at **scanme.nmap.org** ?
```
nmap --script vulners --script-args mincvss=5.0 scanme.nmap.org

```
7.  **(Expert)** `104.131.102.149` is a server for a free open source game. Can you find out which game? Can you connect to the server and play this game (Remember, the game client is free)? Tip: this question could take quite some time (both from you as from `nmap`).
	```
	
	```
### 5.2.2. Hack the Box

## Hack the Box

Let's apply what we have learned so far on [https://hackthebox.eu](https://hackthebox.eu/) . Create an account and go to [starting point](https://app.hackthebox.eu/starting-point) .

You'll notice there are 2 tiers: tier 0 and 1. Each has 3 free machines available to which you can connect. In order to connect to these machines, you'll need to open an OpenVPN connection to the network of Hack the Box by downloading and importing an .ovpn file.

To connect using OpenVPN, you can either use your Kali VM (which has OpenVPN already installed), or install OpenVPN (and a telnet client if needed) on your host system.

More information can be found [here](https://help.hackthebox.eu/en/articles/5185687-gs-introduction-to-lab-access) . If you still have difficulties, you can find video tutorials on [youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t61ibWfpmUI) .

Can you solve the challenges of the following machines?

-   Tier 0 "_the key is a strong foundation_"
    -   _Meow_: nmap + telnet
    -   _Fawn_: nmap + FTP
    -   _Dancing_: nmap + SMB
-   Tier 1 "_you need to walk before you can run_"
    -   _Appointment_: SQL injection + gobuster
    -   _Sequel_: MariaDB
    -   _Crocodile_: nmap + FTP + gobuster

**Tip:** the starting point machines have walkthroughs available in pdf which you can consult if you're stuck. Look for the "_Download Walkthrough_" button.

### 5.2.3. VBoxManage

## VBoxManage

VBoxManage is the command-line interface to VirtualBox. With it, you can completely control VirtualBox from the command line of your host operating system. In this step, we will experiment with some basic functionality of the `VBoxManage` command.

1.  The first step is to locate the VBoxManage executable on your host system. Where is the binary file stored, and how can you use it?
    
2.  Which command can you use to get a list of all your VirtualBox VMs? Which command can you use to start a given VM (e.g. the Kali VM)?
    
3.  Change the amount of virtual RAM assigned to your Kali VM using the VBoxManage command, for example from 1GB to 2GB. Which command(s) do you use for this?
    
4.  Change the amount of video RAM used by the virtual display adapter of your Kali VM, for example from 25MB to 64MB. Which command(s) do you use for this?
    
5.  Create a new snapshot of your Kali VM using VBoxManage. Which command(s) do you use for this?
    
6.  Delete the snapshot you created in the previous step using VBoxManage. Which command(s) do you use for this?

### 5.2.4. Scan Enumerate Exploit

# Setup

1.  Start by creating 2 linked clones that use the Debian (csvrouter) virtual machine as base. As a mac address policy you can choose: "Generate new Mac address for all network adapters" and leave the default checks blank for "keep disk names" and "keep hardware uuids".  
     
2.  In the settings of the virtual machine, remove the second network adapter and change the first one to the host-only network adapter we created in lab 2.  
     
3.  Go in the VirtualBox settings of the machine and change the mac address of the first clone to "DCA632DCBA21" and the mac address of the second clone to "000393AB12CD".  
     
4.  Login to the clones and change their IP configuration to receive everything from DHCP.  
     
5.  Stop and disable the DHCP, DNS and iptables services. Review the script of lab 2.2.3 of virtual networks if necessary.  
     
6.  Perform the same actions on the second clone.  
     
7.  Use your VBoxManage knowledge to increase the memory of clone 1 to 4GB.  
     
8.  Boot all other machines (so as a total this would be: the original Debian csvrouter, kali, windows 10 and the two clones).  
     
9.  Verify that all machines receive an IP address in the same network and are able to connect to each other (ping, ssh, etc should work).  
     
10.  Install docker on the first clone, following the official documentation of docker: [https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)  
     
11.  Run the following docker command:`      sudo docker run --detach --hostname gitlab-docker --publish 80:80 --publish 443:443 --publish 2222:22 --name gitlab-docker --restart always --volume /opt/gitlab-docker/config:/etc/gitlab --volume /opt/gitlab-docker/logs:/var/log/gitlab --volume /opt/gitlab-docker/:/var/opt/gitlab --shm-size 256m gitlab/gitlab-ce:13.8.7-ce.0`  
     
12.  Browse to the IP address of this clone and verify GitLab is up and running (note: it might take a while for GitLab to be fully started: it might show a status error code of 502 for a bit). Choose a root password and try logging in.  
     
13.  Log in to the second clone and change the port of the SSH server to port 33 (use Google if necessary).  
     
14.  Install nginx, ncat and tmux on this machine (use Google if necessary).  
     
15.  In an SSH session to the second clone, start tmux. Type `sudo python3 -m http.server`. Open a second pane by using the correct shortcut in tmux and run `sudo ncat -lvnp 443`

# Time to scan

1.  Perform a ping sweep using nmap with and without sudo. What is the difference? Use wireshark to answer this question.  
     
2.  The ping sweep command should give an answer on the question: "how many hosts are up in the network". Now perform a normal default nmap scan without any options on the Windows client. What ports are scanned and open? (tip use wireshark once again)  
     
3.  A port being open does not necessarily mean that the service that nmap tells you, is actually the service in reality. Nmap uses a default mapping for ports. First perform a normal scan on clone 1 and afterwards perform a banner grab to verify the services. What do you notice?  
     
4.  Do the same for the second clone. Take a very good look at the behavior of port 443 (have a look at your tmux shell and ncat command). Does scanning without a banner grab has influence on this port being open/closed. What about if you perform the banner grab? This demonstrates that you should take care when it comes down to choosing nmap options!  
     
5.  Perform a UDP scan on the csvrouter. What UDP port is open?

# Time to exploit

Our GitLab running in a docker container with a specific version is vulnerable. Use the Metasploit framework and figure out a way to successfully gain a meterpreter shell from your kali. If you have a meterpreter shell answer the following questions:

1.  Run the "sysinfo" command in meterpreter. What IP address do you notice? Is this the IP address of the clone?  
     
2.  What architecture is the machine and what meterpeter architecture do you have? (32bit or 64bit?)  
     
3.  Use the "shell" command to gain a shell. Try out "ls" and "ip a". What do you notice?